“Papa, tell me what stuff means and something means.” Cannot help evade a cute curious face, I said, “I am working on Neural Network.” Before I finish the statement, “Papa, What is a Meural Metark?” I gave up my stubbornness of avoiding her.
With a smile, I said slowly, “Its Neu — ral Net — work” She asked, “Papa, What is Meu-ral Met-ark?” At the back of my head, thoughts of me taking days to comprehend what a NN (short for Neural Network) is, how it would work, where it is used, how it is simulating our human brain’s inner workings were going through.
“Neural Network is a collection (a network) of neurons whose job is to learn a new thing or a new place or a new process or a new concept.” It would be stupid on my part to start with a definition of Neural Network like how we used to teach adults in college.
Asked her to draw a dog out of it.
After all, neural network inside our brain helps us to learn new things in our life.
What I was actually doing here was teaching her neural network (brain) the features of a lion like exactly how Machine Learning Engineers would train the machine to learn new features.
After telling her the features of a lion, asked her “Can you draw these for me?” She happily drew almost a similar figure to that of a dog she drew before.
A dog will have features like face, body, legs, and tail.
A lion will have features like face, body, legs, tail and a beard.
Was it a dog or a lion?
Her neural network got aligned with classifying Dogs and Lions after some training.
Do you know what is the difference between a lion and a dog?” She said, “Yes.” I said, “This is called Learning.
How you learnt it is because of Neural Network inside your brain.” Now, a neural network is a collection of neurons that keeps switching on and off based on things you see, feel, hear and think just like switching on light bulb at our home.
This is lion and so on.’ Every neuron would’ve seen, or heard, or smelled, or tasted certain features.
When you see a new object, your brain will ask the neurons, ‘Hey, anybody experienced this before?’ The neurons will say, ‘Yes, I have seen this.’ Certain other neurons will say, ‘No, I have not seen this.’ The neurons that have seen this before, will group together and form logical connections from the past and gives us an object from our memory.
For example, when I showed you a lion picture, your brain asked the neurons who had seen it before.
The neurons grouped together with features like face, body, legs, tail and a beard forms a lion.
Once all the features are there, the neurons will send a signal that the picture you are looking at is a lion and not a dog.
Every neuron will tune itself to pick up certain features like legs, tail, face, beard, and so on.
Ultimately, the neurons in your brain tell that it is a lion and not a dog.
In a few milliseconds, your brain identifies whether the picture is a lion or a dog.
Neurons work together in finding patterns and once a pattern is identified, it signals the brain that it is a thing, place, song, taste, smell and so on.” It was the time to test her understanding.
It starts with ’N’ and ends with a rhyming sound of ‘ons’ Tanishi: Neurons Me: Good job, baby.
Tanishi: Yes. Me: Tell me what neurons are looking for?
Tanishi: Features.
When I ask you to draw a dog, what are the features there?
Me: Okay, when I ask you to draw a dog, what is the first thing you draw?
This is also a feature that our neurons are looking for.
Tanishi: Legs Me: How many legs does a dog have?
Tanishi: 1,2,3,4.
Tanishi: Yes. Me: So, for a dog, the features are face, body, legs and tail.
Do you understand what are the features now for a dog?
Tanishi: Face, body, legs and tail Me: Amazing baby.
If I ask you to draw a lion, what are the features?
So, neurons are inside our brain waiting for features.
Once the features are seen and a logical connection is established, neurons signals your brain that it is a lion.
All neurons work together like your friends and identify lion and dog.
Tanishi: Neuron friends Me: Good.
Neural network is a group of neuron friends identifying lions and dogs.


Justification for choosing Summa:
I selected Summa's summary because it discusses different types of neural networks and uses a comparison for better understanding. The summary captures the main points of the article in a short and clear way. It strikes a good balance between being short and easy to understand, making it the best choice for explaining the key ideas of the article.
